Question:
    Stanford students are known to possess a sense of intellectual vitality. 
    Tell us about an idea or experience that you found intellectually engaging. (300 word limit)

Essay:

Question:
    The lessons we take from obstacles we encounter can be fundamental to later success. 
    Recount a time when you faced a challenge, setback, or failure. 
    How did it affect you and what did you learn from the experience? (300 word limit)

Ideas:
    2018 Motion profiling versus pure pursuit
    2017 as a whole

Essay:
    Throughout 2018 robotics season, we programmed the drivetrain of our robot during the autonomous period 
    using PID.

    PID worked by looking at how many rotations our wheels have turned so far versus how many rotations we 
    want to go. 

    Then, it would calculate a voltage to the drivetrain to correct for the distance. 

    This method worked well, and even took us to the World Championships in Houston. 
    
    However, it wasn't perfect, and its flaws set us back throughout the season.

    One of the major setbacks of this system was the fact that it would reset the sensors after every path.
    
    Because of this, if we were not perfectly in the place that we intended to be at the end of the path, 
    we would continue with this error for the rest of the autonomous period.

    This made high point scoring autonomous periods impossible throughout the season. 

    After the season, I knew I had to address this issue before next year.
    
    To fix this issue, I researched an algorithm known as Pure Pursuit.

    Pure Pursuit for a Differential Drive base works by constantly keeping track of the robot's position 
    on the field. 
    
    Then, it would draw an arc from the robot's position to the desired path and use it to calculate the desired
    velocities of the drivetrain.

    By using Pure Pursuit, we are able to fully utilize the data from our sensors and avoid substantial amounts of error
    from accumulating between paths.
    
    I discovered Pure Pursuit by talking to other teams, however, implementing this algorithm was more difficult than expected.